HED version="2.0.0" library="score" withStandard="8.3.0" unmerged="True"

'''Prologue'''
This schema is a Hierarchical Event Descriptors (HED) Library Schema implementation of Standardized Computer-based Organized Reporting of EEG (SCORE)(1-2) for describing events occurring during neuroimaging time series recordings.
The HED-SCORE library schema allows cliniciand and scientists to annotate electrophysiology recordings using terms from an internationally accepted set of defined terms (SCORE) compatible with the HED framework .
The resulting annotations are understandable to clinicians and directly usable in computer analysis.

Future extensions may be implemented in the HED-SCORE library schema.
For more information see https://hed-schema-library.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html.

!# start schema

'''Modulator''' <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042001} [External stimuli / interventions or changes in the alertness level (sleep) that modify: the background activity, or how often a graphoelement is occurring, or change other features of the graphoelement (like intra-burst frequency). For each observed finding, there is an option of specifying how they are influenced by the modulators and procedures that were done during the recording.]</nowiki>
* Sleep-modulator <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Drowsy, hedId=HED_0042002} [When sleep/drowsiness features are scored during drowsiness, Drowsy should be listed as a modulator (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 7 and Table 2).]</nowiki>
** Sleep-deprivation <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042003} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 2.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042004} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Sleep-following-sleep-deprivation <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042005} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 2.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042006} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Natural-sleep <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042007} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 2.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042008} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Induced-sleep <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042009} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 2.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042010} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Awakening <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042011} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 2.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042012} [Free text.]</nowiki>
* Medication-modulator <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042013}</nowiki>
** Medication-administered-during-recording <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042014} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 2.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042015} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Medication-withdrawal-or-reduction-during-recording <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042016} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 2.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042017} [Free text.]</nowiki>
* Eye-modulator <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042018}</nowiki>
** Manual-eye-closure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042019} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 2.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042020} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Manual-eye-opening <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042021} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 2.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042022} [Free text.]</nowiki>
* Stimulation-modulator <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042023}</nowiki>
** Intermittent-photic-stimulation <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Intermittent-photic-stimulation-effect, hedId=HED_0042024} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 2.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=numericClass, unitClass=frequencyUnits, hedId=HED_0042025}</nowiki>
** Auditory-stimulation <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042026} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 2.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042027} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Nociceptive-stimulation <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042028} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 2.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042029} [Free text.]</nowiki>
* Hyperventilation <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042030} [When selecting hyperventilation from the list, the user is prompted to score the quality of the hyperventilation (excellent effort, good effort, poor effort, refused the procedure, unable to do the procedure). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 4, Table 2.)]</nowiki>
** Hyperventilation-refused-procedure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042031}</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042032} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Hyperventilation-poor-effort <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042033}</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042034} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Hyperventilation-good-effort <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042035}</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042036} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Hyperventilation-excellent-effort <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042037}</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042038} [Free text.]</nowiki>
* Physical-effort <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042039} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 2.]</nowiki>
**  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042040} [Free text.]</nowiki>
* Cognitive-task <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042041} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 2.]</nowiki>
**  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042042} [Free text.]</nowiki>
* Other-modulator-or-procedure <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042043} [Free text describing other modulators or procedures. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 2.)]</nowiki>
**  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042044} [Free text.]</nowiki>

'''Background-activity''' <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042045} [An EEG activity representing the setting in which a given normal or abnormal pattern appears and from which such pattern is distinguished (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S1.)]</nowiki>
* Posterior-dominant-rhythm <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-significance-to-recording, suggestedTag=Finding-frequency, suggestedTag=Posterior-dominant-rhythm-property, hedId=HED_0042046} [Rhythmic activity occurring during wakefulness over the posterior regions of the head, generally with maximum amplitudes over the occipital areas. Amplitude varies. Best seen with eyes closed and during physical relaxation and relative mental inactivity. Blocked or attenuated by attention, especially visual, and mental effort. In adults this is the alpha rhythm, and the frequency is 8 to 13 Hz. However the frequency can be higher or lower than this range (often a supra or sub harmonic of alpha frequency) and is called alpha variant rhythm (fast and slow alpha variant rhythm). In children, the normal range of the frequency of the posterior dominant rhythm is age-dependant. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S2; suggested tags from Beniczky ea 2017, Table 4.)]</nowiki>
* Mu-rhythm <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-frequency, suggestedTag=Finding-significance-to-recording, suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, hedId=HED_0042047} [EEG rhythm at 7-11 Hz composed of arch-shaped waves occurring over the central or centro-parietal regions of the scalp during wakefulness. Amplitudes varies but is mostly below 50 microV. Blocked or attenuated most clearly by contralateral movement, thought of movement, readiness to move or tactile stimulation. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S2.)]</nowiki>
* Other-organized-rhythm <nowiki>{requireChild, suggestedTag=Rhythmic-property, suggestedTag=Finding-significance-to-recording, suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042048} [EEG activity consisting of waves of approximately constant period that are considered part of the background (ongoing) activity, but do not fulfill the criteria of the posterior dominant rhythm. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S2.)]</nowiki>
**  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042049} [Free text.]</nowiki>
* Background-activity-special-feature <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042050} [Special features provide scoring options for the background activity of critically ill patients. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 6.)]</nowiki>
** Continuous-background-activity <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Rhythmic-property, suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, hedId=HED_0042051} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 6.]</nowiki>
** Nearly-continuous-background-activity <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Rhythmic-property, suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, hedId=HED_0042052} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 6.]</nowiki>
** Discontinuous-background-activity <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Rhythmic-property, suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, hedId=HED_0042053} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 6.]</nowiki>
** Background-burst-suppression <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, hedId=HED_0042054} [EEG pattern consisting of bursts (activity appearing and disappearing abruptly) interrupted by periods of low amplitude (below 20 microV). This pattern occurs simultaneously over all head regions. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S2; Beniczky ea 2017, Section 6.)]</nowiki>
** Background-burst-attenuation <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, hedId=HED_0042055} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 6.]</nowiki>
** Background-activity-suppression <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, hedId=HED_0042056} [Periods showing activity under 10 microV (referential montage) and interrupting the background (ongoing) activity. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S2; Beniczky ea 2017, Section 6.)]</nowiki>
** Electrocerebral-inactivity <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042057} [Absence of any ongoing cortical electric activities; in all leads EEG is isoelectric or only contains artifacts. Sensitivity has to be increased up to 2 microV/mm; recording time: at least 30 minutes. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S2; Beniczky ea 2017, Section 6.)]</nowiki>

'''Critically-ill-patient-patterns''' <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042058} [Rhythmic or periodic patterns in critically ill patients (RPPs) are scored according to the 2012 version of the American Clinical Neurophysiology Society Standardized Critical Care EEG Terminology (Source: Hirsch ea 2013; Beniczky ea 2017, Section 9).]</nowiki>
* Critically-ill-patient-periodic-discharges <nowiki>{suggestedTag=RPP-morphology, suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Finding-frequency, suggestedTag=RPP-time-related-feature, hedId=HED_0042059} [Periodic discharges (PDs): Periodic - repetition of a waveform with relatively uniform morphology and duration with a quantifiable inter-discharge interval between consecutive waveforms and recurrence of the waveform at nearly regular intervals. (Source: Hirsch ea 2013; Suggested tags from Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
* Rhythmic-delta-activity <nowiki>{suggestedTag=RPP-with-superimposed-activity, suggestedTag=RPP-absolute-amplitude, suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Finding-frequency, suggestedTag=RPP-time-related-feature, hedId=HED_0042060} [Rhythmic Delta Activity (RDA): Rhythmic - repetition of a waveform with relatively uniform morphology and duration, and without an interval between consecutive waveforms. RDA - rhythmic activity less than or equal to 4 Hz. The duration of one cycle (i.e., the period) of the rhythmic pattern should vary by less than 50 percent from the duration of the subsequent cycle for the majority (greater than 50 percent) of cycle pairs to qualify as rhythmic. (Source: Hirsch ea 2013; Suggested tags from Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
* Spike-or-sharp-and-wave <nowiki>{suggestedTag=RPP-sharpness, suggestedTag=Number-of-RPP-phases, suggestedTag=Triphasic-morphology, suggestedTag=RPP-absolute-amplitude, suggestedTag=RPP-relative-amplitude, suggestedTag=RPP-polarity, suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Multifocal-finding, suggestedTag=Finding-frequency, suggestedTag=RPP-time-related-feature, hedId=HED_0042061} [Spike-and-wave or Sharp-and-wave (SW) - polyspike, spike or sharp wave consistently followed by a slow wave in a regularly repeating and alternating pattern (spike-wave-spike-wave-spike-wave), with a consistent relationship between the spike (or polyspike or sharp wave) component and the slow wave; and with no interval between one spike-wave complex and the next (if there is an interval, this would qualify as PDs, where each discharge is a spike-and- wave). (Source: Hirsch ea 2013; Suggested tags from Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>

'''Episode''' <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042062} [Clinical episode or electrographic seizure. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S1.)]</nowiki>
* Epileptic-seizure <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Episode-consciousness-affected, suggestedTag=Episode-awareness, suggestedTag=Episode-prodrome, suggestedTag=Episode-tongue-biting, hedId=HED_0042063} [The ILAE seizure classification divides seizures into focal, generalized onset, or unknown onset. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 9, Supplement 1; Selection-tree and list of seizure-types, according to the current ILAE seizure classification, Fisher ea 2017.)]</nowiki>
** Focal-onset-epileptic-seizure <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Automatism-seizure, suggestedTag=Atonic-seizure, suggestedTag=Clonic-seizure, suggestedTag=Epileptic-spasm, suggestedTag=Hyperkinetic-seizure, suggestedTag=Myoclonic-seizure, suggestedTag=Tonic-seizure, suggestedTag=Autonomic-seizure, suggestedTag=Behavior-arrest-seizure, suggestedTag=Cognitive-seizure, suggestedTag=Emotional-seizure, suggestedTag=Sensory-seizure, hedId=HED_0042064} [A focal seizure originates within networks limited to one hemisphere. They may be discretely localized or more widely distributed. Focal seizures may originate in subcortical structures. Focal seizures are optionally subdivided into focal aware and focal impaired awareness seizures. Specific motor and nonmotor classifiers may be added. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2 and Key Points; Suggested tags from Fisher ea 2017, Figure 2; Beniczky ea 2017, Supplement 1, ILAE seizure classification code I.)]</nowiki>
*** Aware-focal-onset-epileptic-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042065} [Focal onset and maintained awareness (knowledge of self or environment). (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2; Beniczky ea 2017, Supplement 1, ILAE seizure classification code  I.A.)]</nowiki>
*** Impaired-awareness-focal-onset-epileptic-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042066} [Focal onset and impaired or lost awareness (knowledge of self or environment) is a feature of focal impaired awareness seizures, previously called complex partial seizures. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2; Beniczky ea 2017, Supplement 1, ILAE seizure classification code I.B.)]</nowiki>
*** Awareness-unknown-focal-onset-epileptic-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042067} [Focal onset and awareness (knowledge of self or environment) unknown or not specified. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2; Beniczky ea 2017, Supplement 1, ILAE seizure classification code I.C.)]</nowiki>
*** Focal-to-bilateral-tonic-clonic-focal-onset-epileptic-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042068} [A seizure type with focal onset, with awareness or impaired awareness, either motor or non-motor, progressing to bilateral tonic clonic activity. The prior term was seizure with partial onset with secondary generalization. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2; Beniczky ea 2017, Supplement 1, ILAE seizure classification code  I.D.01.)]</nowiki>
** Generalized-onset-epileptic-seizure <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Tonic-clonic-seizure, suggestedTag=Clonic-seizure, suggestedTag=Tonic-seizure, suggestedTag=Myoclonic-seizure, suggestedTag=Myoclonic-tonic-clonic-seizure, suggestedTag=Myoclonic-atonic-seizure, suggestedTag=Atonic-seizure, suggestedTag=Epileptic-spasm, suggestedTag=Typical-absence-seizure, suggestedTag=Atypical-absence-seizure, suggestedTag=Myoclonic-absence-seizure, suggestedTag=Eyelid-myoclonia-seizure, hedId=HED_0042069} [Generalized seizures originate at some point within, and rapidly engaging, bilaterally distributed networks. Generalized onset seizures can be motor: tonic clonic, clonic, tonic, myoclonic, myoclonic tonic clonic, myoclonic atonic, atonic, and epileptic spasms. Generalized onset seizures can also be nonmotor (absence): typical absence, atypical absence, myoclonic absence, or absence with eyelid myoclonia. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2 and Key Points; Suggested tags from Fisher ea 2017, Figure 2; Beniczky ea 2017, Supplement 1, ILAE seizure classification code II.)]</nowiki>
** Unknown-onset-epileptic-seizure <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Tonic-clonic-seizure, suggestedTag=Epileptic-spasm, suggestedTag=Behavior-arrest-seizure, hedId=HED_0042070} [A seizure of unknown onset may still evidence certain defining motor (e.g., tonic clonic) or nonmotor (e.g., behavior arrest) characteristics. With further information or future observed seizures, a reclassification of unknown-onset seizures into focal or generalized-onset categories may become possible. Therefore, “unknown-onset” is not a characteristic of the seizure, but a convenient placeholder for our ignorance. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, page 532; Suggested tags from Fisher ea 2017, Figure 2; Beniczky ea 2017, Supplement 1, ILAE seizure classification code III.)]</nowiki>
*** Unclassified-epileptic-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042071} [Referring to a seizure type that cannot be described by the ILAE 2017 classification either because of inadequate information or unusual clinical features. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2; Beniczky ea 2017, Supplement 1, ILAE seizure classification code  III.C.01)]</nowiki>
* Electroencephalographic-seizure <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Episode-consciousness-affected, suggestedTag=Episode-awareness, suggestedTag=Episode-prodrome, suggestedTag=Episode-tongue-biting, hedId=HED_0042072} [Refers usually to non convulsive status. Ictal EEG: rhythmic discharge or spike and wave pattern with definite evolution in frequency, location, or morphology lasting at least 10 s; evolution in amplitude alone did not qualify. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 9.)]</nowiki>
* Seizure-PNES <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-significance-to-recording, suggestedTag=Episode-consciousness-affected, suggestedTag=Episode-awareness, suggestedTag=Episode-prodrome, suggestedTag=Episode-tongue-biting, hedId=HED_0042073} [Psychogenic non-epileptic seizure. Paroxysmal events that mimic (or are confused with) epileptic seizures, but which do not result from epileptic activity; they lack the EEG ictal findings during the ictus. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 9.)]</nowiki>
* Sleep-related-episode <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-significance-to-recording, suggestedTag=Episode-consciousness-affected, suggestedTag=Episode-awareness, suggestedTag=Episode-prodrome, suggestedTag=Episode-tongue-biting, hedId=HED_0042074} [(Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 9.)]</nowiki>
** Sleep-related-arousal <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042075} [Normal arousal. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 9.)]</nowiki>
** Benign-sleep-myoclonus <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042076} [A distinctive disorder of sleep characterized by a) neonatal onset, b) rhythmic myoclonic jerks only during sleep and c) abrupt and consistent cessation with arousal, d) absence of concomitant electrographic changes suggestive of seizures, and e) good outcome. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 9; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
** Confusional-arousal <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042077} [Episode of non epileptic nature included in NREM parasomnias, characterized by sudden arousal and complex behavior but without full alertness, usually lasting a few minutes and occurring almost in all children at least occasionally. Amnesia of the episode is the rule. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 9; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
** Cataplexy <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-significance-to-recording, suggestedTag=Episode-consciousness-affected, suggestedTag=Episode-awareness, suggestedTag=Episode-prodrome, suggestedTag=Episode-tongue-biting, hedId=HED_0042078} [A sudden decrement in muscle tone and loss of deep tendon reflexes, leading to muscle weakness, paralysis, or postural collapse. Cataplexy usually is precipitated by an outburst of emotional expression-notably laughter, anger, or startle. It is one of the tetrad of symptoms of narcolepsy. During cataplexy, respiration and voluntary eye movements are not compromised. Consciousness is preserved. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 9; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
** Sleep-periodic-limb-movement <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042079} [PLMS. Periodic limb movement in sleep. Episodes are characterized by brief (0.5- to 5.0-second) lower-extremity movements during sleep, which typically occur at 20- to 40-second intervals, most commonly during the first 3 hours of sleep. The affected individual is usually not aware of the movements or of the transient partial arousals. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 9; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
** REM-sleep-behavioral-disorder <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042080} [REM sleep behavioral disorder. Episodes characterized by: a) presence of REM sleep without atonia (RSWA) on polysomnography (PSG); b) presence of at least 1 of the following conditions - (1) Sleep-related behaviors, by history, that have been injurious, potentially injurious, or disruptive (example: dream enactment behavior); (2) abnormal REM sleep behavior documented during PSG monitoring; (3) absence of epileptiform activity on electroencephalogram (EEG) during REM sleep (unless RBD can be clearly distinguished from any concurrent REM sleep-related seizure disorder); (4) sleep disorder not better explained by another sleep disorder, a medical or neurologic disorder, a mental disorder, medication use, or a substance use disorder. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 9; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
** Sleep-walking <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042081} [Episodes characterized by ambulation during sleep; the patient is difficult to arouse during an episode, and is usually amnesic following the episode. Episodes usually occur in the first third of the night during slow wave sleep. Polysomnographic recordings demonstrate 2 abnormalities during the first sleep cycle: frequent, brief, non-behavioral EEG-defined arousals prior to the somnambulistic episode and abnormally low gamma (0.75-2.0 Hz) EEG power on spectral analysis, correlating with high-voltage (hyper-synchronic gamma) waves lasting 10 to 15 s occurring just prior to the movement. This is followed by stage I NREM sleep, and there is no evidence of complete awakening. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 9; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
* Pediatric-episode <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-significance-to-recording, suggestedTag=Episode-consciousness-affected, suggestedTag=Episode-awareness, suggestedTag=Episode-prodrome, suggestedTag=Episode-tongue-biting, hedId=HED_0042082} [(Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 9.)]</nowiki>
** Hyperekplexia <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042083} [Disorder characterized by exaggerated startle response and hypertonicity that may occur during the first year of life and in severe cases during the neonatal period. Children usually present with marked irritability and recurrent startles in response to handling and sounds. Severely affected infants can have severe jerks and stiffening, sometimes with breath-holding spells. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 9; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
** Jactatio-capitis-nocturna <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042084} [Relatively common in normal children at the time of going to bed, especially during the first year of life, the rhythmic head movements persist during sleep. Usually, these phenomena disappear before 3 years of age. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 9; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
** Pavor-nocturnus <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042085} [A nocturnal episode characterized by age of onset of less than five years (mean age 18 months, with peak prevalence at five to seven years), appearance of signs of panic two hours after falling asleep with crying, screams, a fearful expression, inability to recognize other people including parents (for a duration of 5-15 minutes), amnesia upon awakening. Pavor nocturnus occurs in patients almost every night for months or years (but the frequency is highly variable and may be as low as once a month) and is likely to disappear spontaneously at the age of six to eight years. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 9; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
** Pediatric-stereotypical-behavior-episode <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042086} [Repetitive motor behavior in children, typically rhythmic and persistent; usually not paroxysmal and rarely suggest epilepsy. They include headbanging, head-rolling, jactatio capitis nocturna, body rocking, buccal or lingual movements, hand flapping and related mannerisms, repetitive hand-waving (to self-induce photosensitive seizures).(Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 9; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
* Paroxysmal-motor-event <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-significance-to-recording, suggestedTag=Episode-consciousness-affected, suggestedTag=Episode-awareness, suggestedTag=Episode-prodrome, suggestedTag=Episode-tongue-biting, hedId=HED_0042087} [Paroxysmal phenomena during neonatal or childhood periods characterized by recurrent motor or behavioral signs or symptoms that must be distinguished from epileptic disorders. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 9; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
* Syncope <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-significance-to-recording, suggestedTag=Episode-consciousness-affected, suggestedTag=Episode-awareness, suggestedTag=Episode-prodrome, suggestedTag=Episode-tongue-biting, hedId=HED_0042088} [Episode with loss of consciousness and muscle tone that is abrupt in onset, of short duration and followed by rapid recovery; it occurs in response to transient impairment of cerebral perfusion. Typical prodromal symptoms often herald onset of syncope and postictal symptoms are minimal. Syncopal convulsions resulting from cerebral anoxia are common but are not a form of epilepsy, nor are there any accompanying EEG ictal discharges. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 9; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
* Other-episode <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042089}</nowiki>
**  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042090} [Free text.]</nowiki>

'''Finding-property''' <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042091} [Descriptive element similar to main HED /Property. Something that pertains to a thing. A characteristic of some entity. A quality or feature regarded as a characteristic or inherent part of someone or something. HED attributes are adjectives or adverbs.]</nowiki>
* Signal-morphology-property <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042092} [Signal morphology attributes relevant to findings of background, interictal or ictal activity. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5, Table 8, Table 12.)]</nowiki>
** Rhythmic-property <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042093} [Rhythmic activity can be observed during background, interictal or ictal activity and HED-SCORE therefore describes this as an property/attribute. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5, Table 12, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
*** Delta-activity <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-frequency, suggestedTag=Finding-amplitude, hedId=HED_0042094} [Rhythmic activity in the delta frequency range (under 4 Hz). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S2, S6.)]</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042095} [Free text.]</nowiki>
*** Theta-activity <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-frequency, suggestedTag=Finding-amplitude, hedId=HED_0042096} [Rhythmic activity in the theta frequency range (4-8 Hz). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S2, S6.)]</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042097} [Free text.]</nowiki>
*** Alpha-activity <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-frequency, suggestedTag=Finding-amplitude, hedId=HED_0042098} [Rhythmic activity in the alpha frequency range (8-13 Hz), but not a part of the posterior dominant rhythm. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S2, S6.)]</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042099} [Free text.]</nowiki>
*** Beta-activity <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-frequency, suggestedTag=Finding-amplitude, hedId=HED_0042100} [Rhythmic activity in the beta frequency range (14-40 Hz). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S2, S6.)]</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042101} [Free text.]</nowiki>
*** Gamma-activity <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-frequency, suggestedTag=Finding-amplitude, hedId=HED_0042102} [Rhythmic activity in the gamma frequency range. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5.)]</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042103} [Free text.]</nowiki>
*** Polymorphic-delta-activity <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042104} [EEG activity consisting of waves in the delta range (over 250 ms duration for each wave) but of different morphology. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S4.)]</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042105} [Free text.]</nowiki>
*** Frontal-intermittent-rhythmic-delta-activity <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042106} [Frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity (FIRDA). Fairly regular or approximately sinusoidal waves, mostly occurring in bursts at 1.5-2.5 Hz over the frontal areas of one or both sides of the head. Comment: most commonly associated with unspecified encephalopathy, in adults. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S4.)]</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042107} [Free text.]</nowiki>
*** Occipital-intermittent-rhythmic-delta-activity <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042108} [Occipital intermittent rhythmic delta activity (OIRDA). Fairly regular or approximately sinusoidal waves, mostly occurring in bursts at 2-3 Hz over the occipital or posterior head regions of one or both sides of the head. Frequently blocked or attenuated by opening the eyes. Comment: most commonly associated with unspecified encephalopathy, in children. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S4.)]</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042109} [Free text.]</nowiki>
*** Temporal-intermittent-rhythmic-delta-activity <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042110} [Temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity (TIRDA). Fairly regular or approximately sinusoidal waves, mostly occurring in bursts at over the temporal areas of one side of the head. Comment: most commonly associated with temporal lobe epilepsy. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S4.)]</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042111} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Spike <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042112} [A transient, clearly distinguished from background activity, with pointed peak at a conventional paper speed or time scale and duration from 20 to under 70 ms, i.e. 1/50-1/15 s approximately. Main component is generally negative relative to other areas. Amplitude varies. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S4.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042113} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Spike-and-slow-wave <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042114} [A pattern consisting of a spike followed by a slow wave. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S4.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042115} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Runs-of-rapid-spikes <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042116} [Bursts of spike discharges at a rate from 10 to 25/sec (in most cases somewhat irregular). The bursts last more than 2 seconds (usually 2 to 10 seconds) and the runs are typically seen in sleep. Synonyms: rhythmic spikes, generalized paroxysmal fast activity, fast paroxysmal rhythms, grand mal discharge, fast beta activity. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S4.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042117} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Polyspikes <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042118} [Two or more consecutive spikes. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S4.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042119} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Polyspike-and-slow-wave <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042120} [Two or more consecutive spikes associated with one or more slow waves. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S4.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042121} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Sharp-wave <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042122} [A transient clearly distinguished from background activity, with pointed peak at a conventional paper speed or time scale, and duration of 70-200 ms, i.e. over 1/4-1/5 s approximately. Main component is generally negative relative to other areas. Amplitude varies. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S4.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042123} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Sharp-and-slow-wave <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042124} [A sequence of a sharp wave and a slow wave. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S4.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042125} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Slow-sharp-wave <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042126} [A transient that bears all the characteristics of a sharp-wave, but exceeds 200 ms. Synonym: blunted sharp wave. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S4.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042127} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** High-frequency-oscillation <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042128} [High Frequency Oscillation (HFO). Oscillations with a frequency higher than 80 Hz. (Source: Wikipedia; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042129} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Hypsarrhythmia-classic <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042130} [Pattern consisting of diffuse chaotic high voltage (more than 300 μV) irregular slow waves interspersed with multiregional spikes and sharp waves over both hemispheres. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S4.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042131} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Hypsarrhythmia-modified <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042132} [Pattern consisting of diffuse chaotic high voltage (more than 300 μV) irregular slow waves interspersed with multiregional spikes and sharp waves over both hemispheres. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S4.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042133} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Fast-spike-activity <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042134} [A burst consisting of a sequence of spikes. Duration greater than 1 s. Frequency at least in the alpha range. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 12; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042135} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Low-voltage-fast-activity <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042136} [Refers to the fast, and often recruiting activity which can be recorded at the onset of an ictal discharge, particularly in invasive EEG recording of a seizure. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 12; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042137} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Polysharp-waves <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042138} [A sequence of two or more sharp-waves. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 12; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042139} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Slow-wave-large-amplitude <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042140} [Slow wave of large amplitude. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 12.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042141} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Irregular-delta-or-theta-activity <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042142} [EEG activity consisting of repetitive waves of inconsistent wave-duration but in delta and/or theta range (greater than 125 ms). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 12; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042143} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Electrodecremental-change <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042144} [Sudden desynchronization of electrical activity. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 12; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042145} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** DC-shift <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042146} [Shift of negative polarity of the direct current recordings, during seizures. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 12; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042147} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Disappearance-of-ongoing-activity <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042148} [Disappearance of the EEG activity that preceded the ictal event but still remnants of background activity (thus not enough to name it electrodecremental change). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 12; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042149} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** RPP-morphology <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-amplitude, hedId=HED_0042150} [Modifier terms for Rhythmic or Periodic Patterns in critically ill patients (RPPs). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
*** RPP-with-superimposed-activity <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Property-not-possible-to-determine, hedId=HED_0042151} [Superimposed activity (for PDs and RDA). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
**** Superimposed-fast-activity <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-frequency, hedId=HED_0042152} [Superimposed fast activity. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
*****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042153} [Free text.]</nowiki>
**** Superimposed-rhythmic-activity <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-frequency, hedId=HED_0042154} [Superimposed rhythmic activity (for PDs only). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
*****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042155} [Free text.]</nowiki>
**** Superimposed-sharp-waves-or-spikes <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042156} [Superimposed sharp waves or spikes (for RDA only). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
*****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042157} [Free text.]</nowiki>
*** RPP-sharpness <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Property-not-possible-to-determine, hedId=HED_0042158} [Sharpness (for PDs and SW). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
**** RPP-spiky <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042159} [Spiky (<70 ms, measured at the baseline). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
**** RPP-sharp <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042160} [Sharp (70–200 ms). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
**** RPP-sharply-contoured <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042161} [Sharply contoured. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
**** RPP-blunt <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042162} [Blunt. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
*** Number-of-RPP-phases <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Property-not-possible-to-determine, suggestedTag=Greater-than, hedId=HED_0042163} [Number of phases (for PDs and SW): 1, 2 or 3. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=numericClass, hedId=HED_0042164}</nowiki>
*** Triphasic-morphology <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042165} [Waves with three distinct phases (for PDs and SW). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
*** RPP-absolute-amplitude <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Property-not-possible-to-determine, suggestedTag=Low, suggestedTag=Medium, suggestedTag=High, hedId=HED_0042166} [Absolute amplitude (for PDs, RDA, SW). Can use suggested tags for amplitude range. Very low, (Finding-amplitude, (Less-than, (Finding-amplitude/20 uv))): less than 20 microV, Low: 20 to 49 microV, Medium: 50 to 199 microV, High: Greater than 200 microV. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=numericClass, unitClass=electricPotentialUnits, hedId=HED_0042167}</nowiki>
*** RPP-relative-amplitude <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Property-not-possible-to-determine, suggestedTag=Less-than-or-equal-to, suggestedTag=Greater-than, hedId=HED_0042168} [Relative amplitude (for PDs), should indicate if it's less than or equal to 2 or greater than 2. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
*** RPP-polarity <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Positive, suggestedTag=Negative, suggestedTag=Property-not-possible-to-determine, hedId=HED_0042169} [Polarity (for PDs and SW). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
**** RPP-tangential-polarity <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042170} [Tangential/horizontal dipole. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
*****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042171} [Free text.]</nowiki>
* Source-analysis-property <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042172} [In case source imaging is done, the results are scored at sublobar level: frontal (perisylvian-superior surface; lateral; mesial; polar; orbitofrontal), temporal (polar; basal, lateral-anterior; lateral-posterior; perisylvian-inferior surface), central (lateral convexity; mesial; central sulcus – anterior surface, central sulcus – posterior surface; opercular), parietal (lateral-convexity; mesial; opercular), occipital (lateral; mesial, basal) and insula. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 8.)]</nowiki>
**  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042173} [Free text.]</nowiki>
* Location-property <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Left, suggestedTag=Right, suggestedTag=Body-part, hedId=HED_0042174} [Location can be scored for findings. Semiologic finding can also be characterized by the somatotopic modifier (i.e. the part of the body where it occurs). In this respect, laterality (left, right, symmetric, asymmetric, left greater than right, right greater than left), body part (eyelid, face, arm, leg, trunk, visceral, left/right) and centricity (axial (trunk), proximal limb, distal limb). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Sections 8 and 10)]</nowiki>
** Sensors <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042175} [Lists all corresponding sensors (electrodes/channels in montage). The sensor-group is selected from a list defined in the site-settings for each EEG-lab.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042176} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Finding-propagation <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Body-part, suggestedTag=Sensors, hedId=HED_0042177} [When propagation within the graphoelement is observed, first the location of the onset region is scored. Then, the location of the propagation can be noted.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042178} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Multifocal-finding <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Property-not-possible-to-determine, hedId=HED_0042179} [When the same interictal graphoelement is observed bilaterally and at least in three independent locations, can score them using one entry, and choosing multifocal as a descriptor of the locations of the given interictal graphoelements, optionally emphasizing the involved, and the most active sites.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042180} [Free text.]</nowiki>
* Modulators-property <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042181} [For each described graphoelement, the influence of the modulators can be scored. Only modulators present in the recording are scored. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 10.)]</nowiki>
** Modulators-reactivity <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Modulator, suggestedTag=Finding-stopped-by, suggestedTag=Increasing, suggestedTag=Decreasing, hedId=HED_0042182} [Susceptibility of individual rhythms or the EEG as a whole to change following sensory stimulation or other physiologic actions (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S2). The type of stimulus can be a modulator or can be specified in free-text.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042183} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Facilitating-factor <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Catamenial, suggestedTag=Fever, suggestedTag=Intoxicated, suggestedTag=Awake, suggestedTag=Asleep, suggestedTag=Sleep-deprivation, hedId=HED_0042184} [The facilitating factors (if known) can be selected: alcohol (Suggested tag: Intoxicated), awakening, catamenial, fever, sleep, sleep-deprivation, other (free text). Facilitating factors are defined as transient and sporadic endogenous or exogenous elements capable of augmenting seizure incidence (increasing the likelihood of seizure occurrence). (Source: Beniczky ea 2013.)]</nowiki>
*** Other-facilitating-factor <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042185}</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042186} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Provocative-factor <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Hyperventilation, hedId=HED_0042187} [Provocative factors are defined as transient and sporadic endogenous or exogenous elements capable of evoking/triggering seizures immediately following the exposure to it. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013.)]</nowiki>
*** Reflex-provoked <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042188}</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042189} [Free text.]</nowiki>
*** Other-provocative-factor <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042190}</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042191} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Intermittent-photic-stimulation-effect <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Normal, hedId=HED_0042192} [The effect of Intermittent Photic Stimulation (IPS) is scored according to the terminology proposed by Kasteleijn-Nolst Trenité ea (2001). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017.)]</nowiki>
*** Posterior-stimulus-dependent-response <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-frequency, hedId=HED_0042193} [Anomalous steady-state VEPs, of unusually sharp waveform or high amplitude. Some types have clinical correlates, for instance, occipital spikes after suppression of generalized PPR by medication and high-amplitude VEPs in neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis. (Source: Trenité ea 2001; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 7.)]</nowiki>
*** Posterior-stimulus-independent-response-limited <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-frequency, hedId=HED_0042194} [Limited to the stimulus train: Activity confined to or maximal at the back of the head and not at the flash frequency or at a harmonic thereof. The term includes delta and theta activity and frank epileptiform patterns. (Source: Trenité ea 2001; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 7.)]</nowiki>
*** Posterior-stimulus-independent-response-self-sustained <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-frequency, hedId=HED_0042195} [Self-sustaining: Self-sustaining posterior stimulus-independent responses that outlast the stimulus train. These often last many seconds and may evolve to an overt seizure. (Source: Trenité ea 2001; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 7.)]</nowiki>
*** Generalized-photoparoxysmal-response-limited <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-frequency, hedId=HED_0042196} [Limited to the stimulus train: Comprises multiple spikes or spike-and-wave activity, which are apparently generalized, but may be of greater amplitude at the front or back of the head. It is termed a photoconvulsive response (PCR) by Bickford et al., and corresponds to type 4 response of Waltz et al. (Source: Trenité ea 2001; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 7.)]</nowiki>
*** Generalized-photoparoxysmal-response-self-sustained <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-frequency, hedId=HED_0042197} [Self-sustaining: Generalized PPR continuing after stimulation. This may not be demonstrated unless the stimulus train is terminated as soon as a generalized PPR is identified. It was termed prolonged photoconvulsive response by Reilly and Peters, and has a strong association with epilepsy and visually induced seizures in patients referred for clinical EEG examination. Its prevalence in asymptomatic general populations is unknown, but was found in five of 13,658 apparently healthy aircrew by Gregory et al. (Source: Trenité ea 2001; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 7.)]</nowiki>
*** Activation-of-pre-existing-epileptogenic-area <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-frequency, hedId=HED_0042198} [Rarely, photic stimulation may activate an epileptogenic cortex, which is also spontaneously active; IPS could then also elicit a seizure by stimulating this, usually posterior located, area. It is questionable whether this should be considered a photoparoxysmal response (PPR), and it does not figure in established classifications. (Source: Trenité ea 2001; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 7.)]</nowiki>
* Time-related-property <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042199} [Estimates of how often a graphoelement is seen in the recording. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 6, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
** Appearance-mode <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Property-not-possible-to-determine, suggestedTag=Random, suggestedTag=Repetitive, suggestedTag=Varying, hedId=HED_0042200} [Describes how the non-ictal EEG pattern/graphoelement is distributed through the recording. Occurrence of the non-ictal EEG pattern / graphoelement can be Random, Repetitive or Varying. Random: occurring without any rhythmicity / periodicity, Repetitive: occurring at an approximately regular rate / interval (generally of 1 to several seconds). Variable: occurring sometimes rhythmic or periodic, other times random, throughout the recording. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 6;  Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix 4.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042201} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Discharge-pattern <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042202} [Describes the organization of the EEG signal within the discharge (distinguish between single and repetitive discharges). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 6;  Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix 4.)]</nowiki>
*** Single-discharge <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-incidence, hedId=HED_0042203} [Applies to the intra-burst pattern: a graphoelement that is not repetitive; before and after the graphoelement one can distinguish the background activity. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 6;  Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix 4.)]</nowiki>
*** Rhythmic-trains-or-bursts <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-prevalence, suggestedTag=Finding-frequency, hedId=HED_0042204} [Applies to the intra-burst pattern: a non-ictal graphoelement that repeats itself without returning to the background activity between them. The graphoelements within this repetition occur at approximately constant period. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 6;  Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix 4.)]</nowiki>
*** Arrhythmic-trains-or-bursts <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-prevalence, hedId=HED_0042205} [Applies to the intra-burst pattern: a non-ictal graphoelement that repeats itself without returning to the background activity between them. The graphoelements within this repetition occur at inconstant period. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 6;  Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix 4.)]</nowiki>
*** Fragmented-discharge <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042206} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 6.]</nowiki>
** RPP-time-related-feature <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042207} [Time related feature for Rhythmic or Periodic Patterns in critically ill patients (RPPs). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
*** RPP-duration <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042208} [Duration (for PDs, RDA and SW). The suggestedTag Property-not-possible-to-determine may be used if it is not possible to determine. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
**** Very-brief-RPP-duration <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042209} [Less than 10 sec. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
**** Brief-RPP-duration <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042210} [10 to 59 sec. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
**** Intermediate-RPP-duration <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042211} [1 to 4.9 min. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
**** Long-RPP-duration <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042212} [5 to 59 min. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
**** Very-long-RPP-duration <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042213} [Greater than 1 hour. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
*** RPP-onset <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042214} [Onset (for PDs, RDA and SW). The suggestedTag Property-not-possible-to-determine may be used if it is not possible to determine. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
**** Sudden-RPP-onset <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042215} [Sudden (progressing from absent to well developed within 3 s.). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
**** Gradual-RPP-onset <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042216} [Gradual onset. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
*** RPP-dynamics <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042217} [Dynamics (for PDs, RDA and SW). The suggestedTag Property-not-possible-to-determine may be used if it is not possible to determine. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
**** Evolving-RPP-dynamics <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042218} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.]</nowiki>
*****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042219} [Free text.]</nowiki>
**** Fluctuating-RPP-dynamics <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042220} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.]</nowiki>
*****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042221} [Free text.]</nowiki>
**** Static-RPP-dynamics <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042222} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 8.]</nowiki>
*****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042223} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Finding-incidence <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042224} [Estimate of how often findings are seen in the recording. This is scored differently, depending on the type of finding. For single discharges, this is scored as incidence (how often it occurs/time-epoch). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 8, Table 6.)]</nowiki>
*** One-time-incidence <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042225} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 6.]</nowiki>
*** Rare-finding-incidence <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042226} [Less than 1/h. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 6.)]</nowiki>
*** Uncommon-finding-incidence <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042227} [1/5 min to 1/h. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 6.)]</nowiki>
*** Occasional-finding-incidence <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042228} [1/min to 1/5min. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 6.)]</nowiki>
*** Frequent-finding-incidence <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042229} [1/10 s to 1/min. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 6.)]</nowiki>
*** Abundant-finding-incidence <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042230} [Greater than 1/10 s. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 6.)]</nowiki>
** Finding-prevalence <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042231} [Estimate of how often findings are seen in the recording. This is scored differently, depending on the type of finding. For trains or bursts this is scored as prevalence (the percentage of the recording covered by the train/burst). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 8, Table 6, Table 8.)]</nowiki>
*** Rare-prevalence <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042232} [Less than 1 percent. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 6, Table 8).]</nowiki>
*** Occasional-prevalence <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042233} [1 to 9 percent. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 6, Table 8)]</nowiki>
*** Frequent-prevalence <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042234} [10 to 49 percent. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 6, Table 8)]</nowiki>
*** Abundant-prevalence <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042235} [50 to 89 percent. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 6, Table 8)]</nowiki>
*** Continuous-prevalence <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042236} [Greater than 90 percent. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 6, Table 8)]</nowiki>
* Posterior-dominant-rhythm-property <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-frequency, suggestedTag=Finding-amplitude, hedId=HED_0042237} [Posterior dominant rhythm is the most often scored EEG feature in clinical practice. Therefore, there are specific terms that can be chosen for characterizing the PDR. Note that frequency and amplitude can be further described to be symmetrical or assymetrical. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 6, Table 4.)]</nowiki>
** Posterior-dominant-rhythm-amplitude-range <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Low, suggestedTag=Medium, suggestedTag=High, hedId=HED_0042238} [Low: less than 20 microV, Medium: 20 to 70 microVSource, High: more than 70 microV. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 4.)]</nowiki>
** Posterior-dominant-rhythm-eye-opening-reactivity <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Property-not-possible-to-determine, suggestedTag=Left, suggestedTag=Right, hedId=HED_0042239} [Change (disappearance or measurable decrease in amplitude) of a posterior dominant rhythm following eye-opening. Eye closure has the opposite effect. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S2; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 4.)]</nowiki>
** Posterior-dominant-rhythm-organization <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Normal, hedId=HED_0042240} [Posterior dominant rhythm organization. When normal could be labeled with suggested tag. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 4.)]</nowiki>
*** Posterior-dominant-rhythm-organization-poorly-organized <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042241} [Poorly organized. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 4.)]</nowiki>
*** Posterior-dominant-rhythm-organization-disorganized <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042242} [Disorganized. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 4.)]</nowiki>
*** Posterior-dominant-rhythm-organization-markedly-disorganized <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042243} [Markedly disorganized. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 4.)]</nowiki>
** Posterior-dominant-rhythm-caveat <nowiki>{suggestedTag=None, suggestedTag=Eyes-open, suggestedTag=Sleep-deprivation, suggestedTag=Drowsy, suggestedTag=Hyperventilation, hedId=HED_0042244} [Caveats for PDR annotation, use suggestedTags to indicate whether there were: no caveats, only open eyes during the recording, sleep-deprived, drowsy or only following hyperventilation. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 4.)]</nowiki>
** Absence-of-posterior-dominant-rhythm <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Data-artifact, suggestedTag=Asleep, hedId=HED_0042245} [Reason for absence of PDR. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 4.)]</nowiki>
*** Absence-of-posterior-dominant-rhythm-extreme-low-voltage <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042246} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 4.]</nowiki>
*** Absence-of-posterior-dominant-rhythm-eye-closure-could-not-be-achieved <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042247} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 4.]</nowiki>
*** Absence-of-posterior-dominant-rhythm-lack-of-compliance <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042248} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 4.]</nowiki>
*** Absence-of-posterior-dominant-rhythm-other-causes <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042249} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 4.]</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042250} [Free text.]</nowiki>
* Episode-property <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042251} [Episode property pertains to the set of characteristics that collectively depict different aspects of an episode, encompassing its manifestations and phases.]</nowiki>
** Seizure-classification <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042252} [Seizure classification refers to the grouping of seizures based on their clinical features, EEG patterns, and other characteristics. Epileptic seizures are named using the current ILAE seizure classification (Fisher et al., 2017, Beniczky et al., 2017).]</nowiki>
*** Myoclonic-seizure <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Duration, hedId=HED_0042253} [Sudden, brief (lower than 100 msec) involuntary single or multiple contraction(s) of muscles(s) or muscle groups of variable topography (axial, proximal limb, distal). Myoclonus is less regularly repetitive and less sustained than is clonus. Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2; Duration tag from Beniczky ea Table 13.)]</nowiki>
*** Negative-myoclonic-seizure <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Duration, hedId=HED_0042254} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Supplement 1; Duration tag from Beniczky ea Table 13.]</nowiki>
*** Motor-seizure <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Duration, hedId=HED_0042255} [Involves musculature in any form. The motor event could consist of an increase (positive) or decrease (negative) in muscle contraction to produce a movement. Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2; Duration tag from Beniczky ea Table 13.)]</nowiki>
**** Clonic-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042256} [Jerking, either symmetric or asymmetric, that is regularly repetitive and involves the same muscle groups. Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2.)]</nowiki>
**** Tonic-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042257} [A sustained increase in muscle contraction lasting a few seconds to minutes. Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2.)]</nowiki>
**** Atonic-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042258} [Sudden loss or diminution of muscle tone without apparent preceding myoclonic or tonic event lasting  about 1 to 2 s, involving head, trunk, jaw, or limb musculature. Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2.)]</nowiki>
**** Myoclonic-atonic-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042259} [A generalized seizure type with a myoclonic jerk leading to an atonic motor component. This type was previously called myoclonic astatic. Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2.)]</nowiki>
**** Myoclonic-tonic-clonic-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042260} [One or a few jerks of limbs bilaterally, followed by a tonic clonic seizure. The initial jerks can be considered to be either a brief period of clonus or myoclonus. Seizures with this characteristic are common in juvenile myoclonic epilepsy. Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2.)]</nowiki>
**** Tonic-clonic-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042261} [A sequence consisting of a tonic followed by a clonic phase. Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2.)]</nowiki>
**** Automatism-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042262} [A more or less coordinated motor activity usually occurring when cognition is impaired and for which the subject is usually (but not always) amnesic afterward. This often resembles a voluntary movement and may consist of an inappropriate continuation of preictal motor activity. Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2.)]</nowiki>
**** Hyperkinetic-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042263} [(Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2.)]</nowiki>
**** Epileptic-spasm <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042264} [A sudden flexion, extension, or mixed extension flexion of predominantly proximal and truncal muscles that is usually more sustained than a myoclonic movement but not as sustained as a tonic seizure. Limited forms may occur: Grimacing, head nodding, or subtle eye movements. Epileptic spasms frequently occur in clusters. Infantile spasms are the best known form, but spasms can occur at all ages. Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2.)]</nowiki>
*** Nonmotor-seizure <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Duration, hedId=HED_0042265} [Focal or generalized seizure types in which motor activity is not prominent. Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2; Duration tag from Beniczky ea Table 13.)]</nowiki>
**** Behavior-arrest-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042266} [Arrest (pause) of activities, freezing, immobilization, as in behavior arrest seizure. A focal behavior arrest seizure shows arrest of behavior as the prominent feature of the entire seizure. Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017.)]</nowiki>
**** Sensory-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042267} [A perceptual experience not caused by appropriate stimuli in the external world. Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2.)]</nowiki>
**** Emotional-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042268} [Seizures presenting with an emotion or the appearance of having an emotion as an early prominent feature, such as fear, spontaneous joy or euphoria, laughing (gelastic), or crying (dacrystic). Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2.)]</nowiki>
**** Cognitive-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042269} [Pertaining to thinking and higher cortical functions, such as language, spatial perception, memory, and praxis. The previous term for similar usage as a seizure type was psychic. Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2.)]</nowiki>
**** Autonomic-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042270} [A distinct alteration of autonomic nervous system function involving cardiovascular, pupillary, gastrointestinal, sudomotor, vasomotor, and thermoregulatory functions. Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2.)]</nowiki>
*** Absence-seizure <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Duration, hedId=HED_0042271} [Absence seizures present with a sudden cessation of activity and awareness. Absence seizures tend to occur in younger age groups, have more sudden start and termination, and they usually display less complex automatisms than do focal seizures with impaired awareness, but the distinctions are not absolute. EEG information may be required for accurate classification. Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2; Duration tag from Beniczky ea Table 13.)]</nowiki>
**** Typical-absence-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042272} [A sudden onset, interruption of ongoing activities, a blank stare, possibly a brief upward deviation of the eyes. Usually the patient will be unresponsive when spoken to. Duration is a few seconds to half a minute with very rapid recovery. Although not always available, an EEG would show generalized epileptiform discharges during the event. An absence seizure is by definition a seizure of generalized onset. The word is not synonymous with a blank stare, which also can be encountered with focal onset seizures. Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2.)]</nowiki>
**** Atypical-absence-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042273} [An absence seizure with changes in tone that are more pronounced than in typical absence or the onset and/or cessation is not abrupt, often associated with slow, irregular, generalized spike-wave activity. Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2.)]</nowiki>
**** Myoclonic-absence-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042274} [A myoclonic absence seizure refers to an absence seizure with rhythmic three-per-second myoclonic movements, causing ratcheting abduction of the upper limbs leading to progressive arm elevation, and associated with three-per-second generalized spike-wave discharges. Duration is typically 10 to 60 s. Impairment of consciousness may not be obvious. Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, page 536.)]</nowiki>
**** Eyelid-myoclonia-seizure <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042275} [Jerking of the eyelids at frequencies of at least 3 per second, commonly with upward eye deviation, usually lasting <10 s, often precipitated by eye closure. There may or may not be associated brief loss of awareness. Definition from ILAE 2017 Classification of Seizure Types Expanded Version. (Source: Fisher ea 2017, Table 2.)]</nowiki>
** Seizure-semiology <nowiki>{suggestedTag=None, suggestedTag=Duration, hedId=HED_0042276} [Seizure semiology refers to the clinical signs and sympoms that are observed during a seizure. Semiology is described according to the ILAE Glossary of Descriptive Terminology for Ictal Semiology (Blume et al., 2001). Besides the name, the semiologic finding can also be characterized by the somatotopic modifier, laterality, body part and centricity. Uses Location-property tags. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 10; Duration tag from Beniczky ea Table 13.)]</nowiki>
*** Semiology-motor-behavioral-arrest <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Body-part, hedId=HED_0042277} [Interruption of ongoing motor activity or of ongoing behaviors with fixed gaze, without movement of the head or trunk (oro-alimentary and hand automatisms may continue). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
*** Semiology-dyscognitive <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042278} [The term describes events in which (1) disturbance of cognition is the predominant or most apparent feature, and (2a) two or more of the following components are involved, or (2b) involvement of such components remains undetermined. Otherwise, use the more specific term (e.g., mnemonic experiential seizure  or hallucinatory experiential seizure). Components of cognition: ++ perception: symbolic conception of sensory information ++ attention: appropriate selection of a principal perception or task ++ emotion: appropriate affective significance of a perception ++ memory: ability to store and retrieve percepts or concepts ++ executive function: anticipation, selection, monitoring of consequences, and initiation of motor activity including praxis, speech. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
*** Semiology-elementary-motor <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042279} [A single type of contraction of a muscle or group of muscles that is usually stereotyped and not decomposable into phases. However, see tonic-clonic, an elementary motor sequence. (Source: Blume ea 2001, 1.1; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-myoclonic-jerk <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Body-part, hedId=HED_0042280} [Characterized by myoclonus. MYOCLONUS : sudden, brief (lower than 100 ms) involuntary single or multiple contraction(s) of muscles(s) or muscle groups of variable topography (axial, proximal limb, distal). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-negative-myoclonus <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Body-part, hedId=HED_0042281} [Characterized by negative myoclonus. NEGATIVE MYOCLONUS: interruption of tonic muscular activity for lower than 500 ms without evidence of preceding myoclonia. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-clonic <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Body-part, hedId=HED_0042282} [Myoclonus that is regularly repetitive, involves the same muscle groups, at a frequency of about 2 to 3 c/s, and is prolonged. Synonym: rhythmic myoclonus. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-jacksonian-march <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Body-part, hedId=HED_0042283} [Term indicating spread of clonic movements through contiguous body parts unilaterally. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-epileptic-spasm <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Body-part, hedId=HED_0042284} [A sudden flexion, extension, or mixed extension flexion of predominantly proximal and truncal muscles that is usually more sustained than a myoclonic movement but not so sustained as a tonic seizure (i.e., about 1 s). Limited forms may occur: grimacing, head nodding. Frequent occurrence in clusters. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-tonic <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Body-part, hedId=HED_0042285} [A sustained increase in muscle contraction lasting a few seconds to minutes. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-dystonic <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Body-part, hedId=HED_0042286} [Sustained contractions of both agonist and antagonist muscles producing athetoid or twisting movements, which, when prolonged, may produce abnormal postures. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-postural <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Body-part, hedId=HED_0042287} [Adoption of a posture that may be bilaterally symmetric or asymmetric (as in a fencing posture). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-versive <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Body-part, hedId=HED_0042288} [A sustained, forced conjugate ocular, cephalic, and/or truncal rotation or lateral deviation from the midline. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-tonic-clonic <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Body-part, hedId=HED_0042289} [A sequence consisting of a tonic followed by a clonic phase. Variants such as clonic-tonic-clonic may be seen. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
***** Semiology-tonic-clonic-without-figure-of-four <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042290} [Without figure of four: Asymmetry of limb posture during the tonic phase of a GTC: one arm is rigidly extended at the elbow (often with the fist clenched tightly and flexed at the wrist), whereas the opposite arm is flexed at the elbow. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
***** Semiology-tonic-clonic-with-figure-of-four-extension-left-elbow <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042291} [With figure of four: Asymmetry of limb posture during the tonic phase of a GTC: one arm is rigidly extended at the elbow (often with the fist clenched tightly and flexed at the wrist), whereas the opposite arm is flexed at the elbow. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
***** Semiology-tonic-clonic-with-figure-of-four-extension-right-elbow <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042292} [With figure of four: Asymmetry of limb posture during the tonic phase of a GTC: one arm is rigidly extended at the elbow (often with the fist clenched tightly and flexed at the wrist), whereas the opposite arm is flexed at the elbow. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-astatic <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Body-part, hedId=HED_0042293} [Loss of erect posture that results from an atonic, myoclonic, or tonic mechanism. Synonym: drop attack. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-atonic <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Body-part, hedId=HED_0042294} [Sudden loss or diminution of muscle tone without apparent preceding myoclonic or tonic event lasting greater or equal to 1 to 2 s, involving head, trunk, jaw, or limb musculature. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-eye-blinking <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, hedId=HED_0042295} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10.]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-subtle-motor-phenomena <nowiki>{requireChild, suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, hedId=HED_0042296} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10.]</nowiki>
*****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042297} [Free text.]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-other-elementary-motor <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042298}</nowiki>
*****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042299} [Free text.]</nowiki>
*** Semiology-automatisms <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042300} [A more or less coordinated, repetitive, motor activity usually occurring when cognition is impaired and for which the subject is usually amnesic afterward. This often resembles a voluntary movement and may consist of an inappropriate continuation of ongoing preictal motor activity. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Fisher ea 2017, Table 2.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-mimetic <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042301} [Facial expression suggesting an emotional state, often fear. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-oroalimentary <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042302} [Lip smacking, lip pursing, chewing, licking, tooth grinding, or swallowing. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-dacrystic <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042303} [Bursts of crying. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-manual <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, hedId=HED_0042304} [1. Indicates principally distal components, bilateral or unilateral. 2. Fumbling, tapping, manipulating movements. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-gestural <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, hedId=HED_0042305} [Semipurposive, asynchronous hand movements. Often unilateral. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-hypermotor <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Body-part, hedId=HED_0042306} [1. Involves predominantly proximal limb or axial muscles producing irregular sequential ballistic movements, such as pedaling, pelvic thrusting, thrashing, rocking movements. 2. Increase in rate of ongoing movements or inappropriately rapid performance of a movement. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-hypokinetic <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Body-part, hedId=HED_0042307} [A decrease in amplitude and/or rate or arrest of ongoing motor activity. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-gelastic <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042308} [Bursts of laughter or giggling, usually without an appropriate affective tone. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-other-automatisms <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042309} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10.]</nowiki>
*****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042310} [Free text.]</nowiki>
*** Semiology-sensory <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042311} [A perceptual experience not caused by appropriate stimuli in the external world. Modifies seizure or aura. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Blume ea 2001, 2.2.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-headache <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, hedId=HED_0042312} [Headache occurring in close temporal proximity to the seizure or as the sole seizure manifestation. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-visual <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, hedId=HED_0042313} [Flashing or flickering lights, spots, simple patterns, scotomata, or amaurosis. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-auditory <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, hedId=HED_0042314} [Buzzing, drumming sounds or single tones. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-olfactory <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042315} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10.]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-gustatory <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042316} [Taste sensations including acidic, bitter, salty, sweet, or metallic. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-epigastric <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042317} [Abdominal discomfort including nausea, emptiness, tightness, churning, butterflies, malaise, pain, and hunger; sensation may rise to chest or throat. Some phenomena may reflect ictal autonomic dysfunction. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-somatosensory <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Body-part, hedId=HED_0042318} [Tingling, numbness, electric-shock sensation, sense of movement or desire to move. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-autonomic-sensation <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042319} [Viscerosensitive. A sensation consistent with involvement of the autonomic nervous system, including cardiovascular, gastrointestinal,  sudomotor, vasomotor, and thermoregulatory functions. (Thus autonomic aura; cf. autonomic events 3.0/Semiology-autonomic). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5; Blume ea 2001, 2.2.1.8.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-sensory-other <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042320} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10.]</nowiki>
*****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042321} [Free text.]</nowiki>
*** Semiology-experiential <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042322} [Affective, mnemonic, or composite perceptual phenomena including illusory or composite hallucinatory events; these may appear alone or in combination. Included are feelings of depersonalization. These phenomena have subjective qualities similar to those experienced in life but are recognized by the subject as occurring outside of actual context. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Blume ea 2001, 2.2.2.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-affective-emotional <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042323} [Components include fear, depression, joy, and (rarely) anger. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-hallucinatory <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042324} [Composite perceptions without corresponding external stimuli involving visual, auditory, somatosensory, olfactory, and/or gustatory phenomena. Example: hearing  and seeing  people talking. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-illusory <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042325} [An alteration of actual percepts involving the visual, auditory, somatosensory, olfactory, or gustatory systems. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-mnemonic <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Familiar, suggestedTag=Unfamiliar, hedId=HED_0042326} [Components that reflect ictal dysmnesia such as feelings of familiarity (deja-vu) and unfamiliarity (jamais-vu). Use suggested tags to indicate Familiar (deja-vu) or Unfamiliar (jamais-vu). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-experiential-other <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042327} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10.]</nowiki>
*****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042328} [Free text.]</nowiki>
*** Semiology-language <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042329} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10.]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-vocalization <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042330} [Single or repetitive utterances consisting of sounds such as grunts or shrieks. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-verbalization <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042331} [Single or repetitive utterances consisting of words, phrases, or brief sentences. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-dysphasia <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042332} [Partially impaired communication involving language without dysfunction of relevant primary motor or sensory pathways, manifested as impaired comprehension, anomia, paraphasic errors, or a combination of these. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-aphasia <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042333} [Fully impaired communication involving language without dysfunction of relevant primary motor or sensory pathways, manifested as impaired comprehension, anomia, paraphasic errors, or a combination of these. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-language-other <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042334} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10.]</nowiki>
*****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042335} [Free text.]</nowiki>
*** Semiology-autonomic <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042336} [An objectively documented and distinct alteration of autonomic nervous system function involving cardiovascular, pupillary, gastrointestinal, sudomotor, vasomotor, and thermoregularity functions (cf. Semiology-autonomic-sensation). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Blume ea 2001, 3.2.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-pupillary <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, hedId=HED_0042337} [Mydriasis, miosis (either bilateral or unilateral). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-hypersalivation <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042338} [Increase in production of saliva leading to uncontrollable drooling. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-respiratory-apnoeic <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042339} [Subjective shortness of breath, hyperventilation, stridor, coughing, choking, apnea, oxygen desaturation, neurogenic pulmonary edema. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-cardiovascular <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042340} [Modifications of heart rate (tachycardia, bradycardia), cardiac arrhythmias (such as sinus arrhythmia, sinus arrest, supraventricular tachycardia, atrial premature depolarizations, ventricular premature depolarizations, atrio-ventricular block, bundle branch block, atrioventricular nodal escape rhythm, asystole). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-gastrointestinal <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042341} [Nausea, eructation, vomiting, retching, abdominal sensations, abdominal pain, flatulence, spitting, diarrhea. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-urinary-incontinence <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042342} [Urinary urge (intense urinary urge at the beginning of seizures), urinary incontinence, ictal urination (rare symptom of partial seizures without loss of consciousness). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-genital <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042343} [Sexual auras (erotic thoughts and feelings, sexual arousal and orgasm). Genital auras (unpleasant, sometimes painful, frightening or emotionally neutral somatosensory sensations in the genitals that can be accompanied by ictal orgasm). Sexual automatisms (hypermotor movements consisting of writhing, thrusting, rhythmic movements of the pelvis, arms and legs, sometimes associated with picking and rhythmic manipulation of the groin or genitalia, exhibitionism and masturbation). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-vasomotor <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042344} [Flushing or pallor (may be accompanied by feelings of warmth, cold and pain). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-sudomotor <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, hedId=HED_0042345} [Sweating and piloerection (may be accompanied by feelings of warmth, cold and pain). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-thermoregulatory <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042346} [Hyperthermia, fever. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 10; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
**** Semiology-autonomic-other <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042347}</nowiki>
*****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042348} [Free text.]</nowiki>
*** Semiology-manifestation-other <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042349}</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042350} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Postictal-semiology <nowiki>{suggestedTag=None, suggestedTag=Duration, hedId=HED_0042351} [A transient clinical abnormality of central nervous system function that appears or becomes accentuated when clinical signs of the ictus have ended. (Source: Blume ea 2001; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 11; Duration tag from Beniczky ea Table 13.)]</nowiki>
*** Postictal-unconscious <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042352} [Unawareness and unresponsiveness. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 11; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
*** Postictal-quick-recovery-of-consciousness <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042353} [Quick recovery of awareness and responsiveness. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 11; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
*** Postictal-aphasia-or-dysphasia <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042354} [Impaired communication involving language without dysfunction of relevant primary motor or sensory pathways, manifested as impaired comprehension, anomia, parahasic errors or a combination of these. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 11; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
*** Postictal-behavioral-change <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042355} [Occurring immediately after a seizure. Including psychosis, hypomanina, obsessive-compulsive behavior. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 11; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
*** Postictal-hemianopia <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042356} [Postictal visual loss in a a hemi field. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 11; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
*** Postictal-impaired-cognition <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042357} [Decreased Cognitive performance involving one or more of perception, attention, emotion, memory, execution, praxis, speech. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 11; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
*** Postictal-dysphoria <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042358} [Depression, irritability, euphoric mood, fear, anxiety. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 11; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
*** Postictal-headache <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042359} [Headache with features of tension-type or migraine headache that develops within 3 h following the seizure and resolves within 72 h after seizure. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 11; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
*** Postictal-nose-wiping <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, hedId=HED_0042360} [Noes-wiping usually within 60 sec of seizure offset, usually with the hand ipsilateral to the seizure onset. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 11; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
*** Postictal-anterograde-amnesia <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042361} [Impaired ability to remember new material. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 11; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
*** Postictal-retrograde-amnesia <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042362} [Impaired ability to recall previously remember material. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 11; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
*** Postictal-paresis <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Body-part, hedId=HED_0042363} [Todds palsy. Any unilateral postictal dysfunction relating to motor, language, sensory and/or integrative functions. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 11; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
*** Postictal-sleep <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042364} [Invincible need to sleep after a seizure. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 11; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
*** Postictal-unilateral-myoclonic-jerks <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042365} [Unilateral myoclonic jerks. Myoclonus: sudden, brief (<100 ms) involuntary single or multiple contraction(s) of muscles(s) or muscle groups of variable topography (axial, proximal limb, distal). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 11; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
*** Postictal-other-unilateral-motor-phenomena <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042366} [Unilateral motor phenomena, other then specified above, occurring in the postictal phase. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 11; Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S5.)]</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042367} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Episode-time-context-property <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042368} [Additional clinically relevant features related to episodes can be scored under timing and context. If needed, episode duration can be tagged with suggested tag. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 10.)]</nowiki>
*** Episode-consciousness-affected <nowiki>{suggestedTag=False, suggestedTag=Some, suggestedTag=True, suggestedTag=Property-not-possible-to-determine, hedId=HED_0042369} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 13.]</nowiki>
*** Episode-awareness <nowiki>{suggestedTag=True, suggestedTag=False, hedId=HED_0042370} [False: the patient is not aware of the episode. True: the patient is aware of the episode. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 13.)]</nowiki>
*** Episode-event-count <nowiki>{requireChild, suggestedTag=Property-not-possible-to-determine, hedId=HED_0042371} [Number of stereotypical episodes during the recording. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 13.)]</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=numericClass, hedId=HED_0042372}</nowiki>
*** Status-epilepticus <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042373} [Episode with duration >30 min but not precisely determined (status epilepticus). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 13.)]</nowiki>
*** Episode-prodrome <nowiki>{suggestedTag=True, suggestedTag=False, hedId=HED_0042374} [Prodrome is a preictal phenomenon, and it is defined as a subjective or objective clinical alteration (e.g., ill-localized sensation or agitation) that heralds the onset of an epileptic seizure but does not form part of it (Blume ea 2001). Therefore, prodrome should be distinguished from aura (which is an ictal phenomenon). If prodrome present/true + free text. (Source: Blume ea 2001; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 13.)]</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042375} [Free text.]</nowiki>
*** Initial-ictal-phase <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Asleep, suggestedTag=Awake, hedId=HED_0042376}</nowiki>
*** Subsequent-ictal-phase <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042377}</nowiki>
*** Post-ictal-phase <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042378}</nowiki>
*** Episode-tongue-biting <nowiki>{suggestedTag=True, suggestedTag=False, hedId=HED_0042379} [Beniczky ea 2017, Table 13.]</nowiki>
* Other-finding-property <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042380}</nowiki>
** Artifact-significance-to-recording <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042381} [It is important to score the significance of the described artifacts: recording is not interpretable, recording of reduced diagnostic value, does not interfere with the interpretation of the recording. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 12)]</nowiki>
*** Recording-not-interpretable-due-to-artifact <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042382}</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042383} [Free text.]</nowiki>
*** Recording-of-reduced-diagnostic-value-due-to-artifact <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042384}</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042385} [Free text.]</nowiki>
*** Artifact-does-not-interfere-recording <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042386}</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042387} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Finding-significance-to-recording <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Normal, suggestedTag=Abnormal, suggestedTag=Property-not-possible-to-determine, hedId=HED_0042388} [Significance of finding. When normal/abnormal could be labeled with with suggested tags.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042389} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Finding-frequency <nowiki>{requireChild, suggestedTag=Symmetrical, suggestedTag=Asymmetrical, hedId=HED_0042390} [Value in Hz (number) typed in.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=numericClass, unitClass=frequencyUnits, hedId=HED_0042391}</nowiki>
** Finding-amplitude <nowiki>{requireChild, suggestedTag=Symmetrical, suggestedTag=Asymmetrical, hedId=HED_0042392} [Value in microvolts (number) typed in, e.g. (Finding-amplitude/number uv)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=numericClass, unitClass=electricPotentialUnits, hedId=HED_0042393}</nowiki>
** Finding-stopped-by <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042394}</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042395} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Property-not-possible-to-determine <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042396} [Not possible to determine.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042397} [Free text.]</nowiki>

'''Interictal-finding''' <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042398} [EEG pattern / transient that is distinguished from the background activity, considered abnormal, but is not recorded during ictal period (seizure) or postictal period; the presence of an interictal finding does not necessarily imply that the patient has epilepsy. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S1; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5.)]</nowiki>
* Epileptiform-interictal-activity <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Spike, suggestedTag=Spike-and-slow-wave, suggestedTag=Runs-of-rapid-spikes, suggestedTag=Polyspikes, suggestedTag=Polyspike-and-slow-wave, suggestedTag=Sharp-wave, suggestedTag=Sharp-and-slow-wave, suggestedTag=Slow-sharp-wave, suggestedTag=High-frequency-oscillation, suggestedTag=Hypsarrhythmia-classic, suggestedTag=Hypsarrhythmia-modified, suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Finding-propagation, suggestedTag=Multifocal-finding, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, suggestedTag=Finding-incidence, hedId=HED_0042399} [Transients distinguishable from background activity, with characteristic spiky morphology, typically, but neither exclusively, nor invariably found in interictal EEGs of people with epilepsy. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S4; Morphologies from Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Suggested tags from Beniczky ea 2017, Section 8.)]</nowiki>
* Abnormal-interictal-rhythmic-activity <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Rhythmic-property, suggestedTag=Polymorphic-delta-activity, suggestedTag=Frontal-intermittent-rhythmic-delta-activity, suggestedTag=Occipital-intermittent-rhythmic-delta-activity, suggestedTag=Temporal-intermittent-rhythmic-delta-activity, suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, suggestedTag=Finding-incidence, hedId=HED_0042400} [Activity of frequency lower than alpha, that clearly exceeds the amount considered physiologically normal for patient age and state of alertness. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S4; Morphologies from Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Suggested tags from Beniczky ea 2017, Section 8.)]</nowiki>
* Interictal-special-patterns <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042401} [(Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5.)]</nowiki>
** Interictal-periodic-discharges <nowiki>{suggestedTag=RPP-morphology, suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=RPP-time-related-feature, hedId=HED_0042402} [Periodic discharge not further specified (PDs). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5.)]</nowiki>
*** Generalized-periodic-discharges <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042403} [GPDs. The term generalized refers to any bilateral, bisynchronous and symmetric pattern, even if it has a restricted field (e.g. bifrontal). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Hirsch ea 2013.)]</nowiki>
*** Lateralized-periodic-discharges <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042404} [LPDs. Lateralized includes unilateral and bilateral synchronous but asymmetric; includes focal, regional and hemispheric patterns. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Hirsch ea 2013.)]</nowiki>
*** Bilateral-independent-periodic-discharges <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042405} [BIPDs. Bilateral Independent refers to the presence of 2 independent (asynchronous) lateralized patterns, one in each hemisphere. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Hirsch ea 2013.)]</nowiki>
*** Multifocal-periodic-discharges <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042406} [MfPDs. Multifocal refers to the presence of at least three independent lateralized patterns with at least one in each hemisphere. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5; Hirsch ea 2013.)]</nowiki>
** Extreme-delta-brush <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042407} [(Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 5.)]</nowiki>

'''Physiologic-pattern''' <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042408} [EEG graphoelements or rhythms that are considered normal. They only should be scored if the physician considers that they have a specific clinical significance for the recording. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S1; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Rhythmic-activity-pattern <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Rhythmic-property, suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042409} [Rhythmic activity. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Slow-alpha-variant-rhythm <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042410} [Characteristic rhythms mostly at 4-5 Hz, recorded most prominently over the posterior regions of the head. The signals generally alternate or are intermixed with the alpha rhythm to which they are often harmonically related. Amplitude varies but is frequently close to 50 micro V. Blocked or attenuated by attention, especially visual, and mental effort. Comment: slow alpha variant rhythms should be distinguished from posterior slow waves characteristic of children and adolescents and occasionally seen in young adults. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S6; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Fast-alpha-variant-rhythm <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042411} [Characteristic rhythm at 14-20 Hz, detected most prominently over the posterior regions of the head. May alternate or be intermixed with alpha rhythm. Blocked or attenuated by attention, especially visual, and mental effort. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S6; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Lambda-wave <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042412} [Diphasic sharp transient occurring over occipital regions of the head of waking subjects during visual exploration. The main component is positive relative to other areas. Time-locked to saccadic eye movement. Amplitude varies but is generally below 50 microV. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013; Appendix S6, Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Posterior-slow-waves-youth <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042413} [Waves in the delta and theta range, of variable form, lasting 0.35 to 0.5 s or longer without any consistent periodicity, found in the range of 6-12 years (occasionally seen in young adults). Alpha waves are almost always intermingled or superimposed. Reactive similar to alpha activity. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013; Appendix S6, Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Diffuse-slowing-hyperventilation <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042414} [Bilateral, diffuse slowing of brain signals during hyperventilation. Recorded in 70 percent of normal children (3-5 years) and less then 10 percent of adults. Slowing usually appears in the posterior regions and spreads forward in younger age groups, whereas slowing tends to appear in the frontal regions and spreads backward in the older age group. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S6; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Photic-driving <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042415} [Physiologic response consisting of rhythmic activity elicited over the posterior regions of the head by repetitive photic stimulation at frequencies of about 5-30 Hz. Comments: term should be limited to activity time-locked to the stimulus and of frequency identical or harmonically related to the stimulus frequency. Photic driving should be distinguished from the visual evoked potentials elicited by isolated flashes of light or flashes repeated at very low frequency. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013; Appendix S6, Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Photomyogenic-response <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042416} [A response to intermittent photic stimulation characterized by the appearance in the record of brief, repetitive muscular artifacts (spikes) over the anterior regions of the head. These often increase gradually in amplitude as stimuli are continued and cease promptly when the stimulus is withdrawn. Comment: this response is frequently associated with flutter of the eyelids and vertical oscillations of the eyeballs and sometimes with discrete jerking mostly involving the musculature of the face and head. (Preferred to synonym: photo-myoclonic response). (Source: Beniczky ea 2013; Appendix S6, Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Arousal-pattern <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042417} [Arousal pattern in children. Prolonged, marked high voltage 4-6/s activity in all leads with some intermixed slower frequencies. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S6; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Frontal-arousal-rhythm <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042418} [Prolonged (up to 20s) rhythmical sharp or spiky activity over the frontal areas (maximum over the frontal midline) seen at arousal from sleep in children with minimal cerebral dysfunction. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S6; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Other-physiologic-pattern <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042419}</nowiki>
**  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042420} [Free text.]</nowiki>

'''Polygraphic-channel-finding''' <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042421} [Changes observed in polygraphic channels can be scored: EOG, Respiration, ECG, EMG, other polygraphic channel (+ free text), and their significance logged (normal, abnormal, no definite abnormality). (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 13.)]</nowiki>
* EOG-channel-finding <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-significance-to-recording, hedId=HED_0042422} [Electrooculogram (EOG) channel findings. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 13.)]</nowiki>
**  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042423} [Free text.]</nowiki>
* Respiration-channel-finding <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-significance-to-recording, hedId=HED_0042424} [Findings in respiration sensors. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 13, Table 16.)]</nowiki>
** Oxygen-saturation <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042425} [Percentage. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Table 9; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=numericClass, hedId=HED_0042426}</nowiki>
** Apnea <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042427} [Temporary cessation of breathing (Source: Wikipedia). Duration (range in seconds). (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Table 9.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=numericClass, hedId=HED_0042428}</nowiki>
** Hypopnea <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042429} [Overly shallow breathing or an abnormally low respiratory rate. Duration (range in seconds). (Source: Wikipedia; Beniczky ea 2013, Table 9.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=numericClass, hedId=HED_0042430}</nowiki>
** Apnea-hypopnea-index <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Frequency, hedId=HED_0042431} [Events/hour as calculated by dividing the number of apnoea and hypopnoea events by the number of hours of sleep. (Source: Wikipedia; Beniczky ea 2013, Table 9.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=numericClass, hedId=HED_0042432}</nowiki>
** Periodic-respiration <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042433} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042434} [Free text.(Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16.)]</nowiki>
** Tachypnea <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Frequency, hedId=HED_0042435} [Numerical value for cycles / minute. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=numericClass, hedId=HED_0042436}</nowiki>
** Other-respiration-feature <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042437} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042438} [Free text.]</nowiki>
* ECG-channel-finding <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-significance-to-recording, hedId=HED_0042439} [Findings in Electrocardiogram recordings. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 13, Table 16.)]</nowiki>
** ECG-QT-period <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042440} [The time from the start of the Q wave to the end of the T wave (Source: Wikipedia; Beniczky ea 2013, Table 9; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=numericClass, unitClass=timeUnits, hedId=HED_0042441}</nowiki>
** ECG-normal-rhythm <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Frequency, hedId=HED_0042442} [Normal rhythm. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042443} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** ECG-arrhythmia <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042444} [Free text annotating characteristics of arrythymia. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042445} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** ECG-asystolia <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042446} [Absence of ventricular contractions in the context of a lethal heart arrhythmia. Duration in seconds of the absence. (Source: Wikipedia; Beniczky ea 2013, Table 9.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=numericClass, unitClass=timeUnits, hedId=HED_0042447}</nowiki>
** ECG-bradycardia <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Frequency, hedId=HED_0042448} [A resting heart rate under 60 beats per minute. Numerical value for frequency in beats/minute. (Source: Wikipedia; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16; Beniczky ea 2013, Table 9.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=numericClass, hedId=HED_0042449}</nowiki>
** ECG-extrasystole <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042450} [A heart rhythm disorder corresponding to a premature contraction of one of the chambers of the heart. (Source: Wikipedia; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042451} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** ECG-ventricular-premature-depolarization <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042452} [A premature ventricular contraction (PVC) is a common event where the heartbeat is initiated by Purkinje fibers in the ventricles rather than by the sinoatrial node. (Source: Wikipedia; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042453} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** ECG-tachycardia <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Frequency, hedId=HED_0042454} [Numerical value for frequency in beats/minute. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16; Beniczky ea 2013, Table 9.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=numericClass, hedId=HED_0042455}</nowiki>
** Other-ECG-feature <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042456} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042457} [Free text.]</nowiki>
* EMG-channel-finding <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-significance-to-recording, suggestedTag=Symmetrical, suggestedTag=Left, suggestedTag=Right, hedId=HED_0042458} [Findings in Electromyography recordings (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 13, Table 16.). Suggested tags can be used to note the side of the muscle (Left or Right). The order of activation may be indicated using Temporal-relation: (Left, (Before,Right)).]</nowiki>
** EMG-muscle-name <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042459} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042460} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Myoclonus <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042461} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16.]</nowiki>
*** Negative-myoclonus <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042462} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16.]</nowiki>
*** Myoclonus-rhythmic <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042463} [Numerical value for frequency. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16.)]</nowiki>
****  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=numericClass, hedId=HED_0042464}</nowiki>
*** Myoclonus-arrhythmic <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042465} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16.]</nowiki>
*** Myoclonus-synchronous <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042466} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16.]</nowiki>
*** Myoclonus-asynchronous <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042467} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16.]</nowiki>
** PLMS <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042468} [Periodic limb movements in sleep. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16.)]</nowiki>
** Spasm <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042469} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16.]</nowiki>
** Tonic-contraction <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042470} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16.]</nowiki>
** Other-EMG-features <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042471} [Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 16.]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042472} [Free text.]</nowiki>
* Other-polygraphic-channel-feature <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042473} [Add the name and type of the polygraphic channel as well as the feature in the description. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 13.)]</nowiki>
**  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042474} [Free text.]</nowiki>

'''Sleep-and-drowsiness''' <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042475} [The features of the ongoing activity during sleep are scored here. If abnormal graphoelements appear, disappear or change their morphology during sleep, that is not scored here but at the entry corresponding to that graphoelement (as a modulator). (Source: Beniczky ea 2013. Appendix S1.)]</nowiki>
* Sleep-architecture <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Property-not-possible-to-determine, hedId=HED_0042476} [For longer recordings. Only to be scored if whole-night sleep is part of the recording. It is a global descriptor of the structure and pattern of sleep: estimation of the amount of time spent in REM and NREM sleep, sleep duration, NREM-REM cycle. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S3.)]</nowiki>
** Normal-sleep-architecture <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042477} [Recording containing sleep-patterns that are considered normal for the attained sleep stages and for the age. (Source: Benizcky ea 2013, Appendix S3.)]</nowiki>
** Abnormal-sleep-architecture <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042478} [Absence or consistently marked amplitude asymmetry (>50%) of a normal sleep graphoelement. (Source: Benizcky ea 2013, Appendix S3.)]</nowiki>
* Sleep-stage-reached <nowiki>{requireChild, suggestedTag=Property-not-possible-to-determine, suggestedTag=Finding-significance-to-recording, hedId=HED_0042479} [For normal sleep patterns the sleep stages reached during the recording can be specified. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 7.)]</nowiki>
** Sleep-stage-N1 <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042480} [Sleep stage 1. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 7.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042481} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Sleep-stage-N2 <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042482} [Sleep stage 2. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 7.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042483} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Sleep-stage-N3 <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042484} [Sleep stage 3. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 7.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042485} [Free text.]</nowiki>
** Sleep-stage-REM <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042486} [Rapid eye movement. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Section 7.)]</nowiki>
***  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042487} [Free text.]</nowiki>
* Sleep-spindles <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-significance-to-recording, suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Asymmetrical, suggestedTag=Symmetrical, hedId=HED_0042488} [Burst at 11-15 Hz but mostly at 12-14 Hz generally diffuse but of higher voltage over the central regions of the head, occurring during sleep. Amplitude varies but is mostly below 50 microV in the adult. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S3; Beniczky ea 2017, Section 7.)]</nowiki>
* Vertex-wave <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-significance-to-recording, suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Asymmetrical, suggestedTag=Symmetrical, hedId=HED_0042489} [Sharp potential, maximal at the vertex, negative relative to other areas, apparently occurring spontaneously during sleep or in response to a sensory stimulus during sleep or wakefulness. May be single or repetitive. Amplitude varies but rarely exceeds 250 microV. Abbreviation: V wave. Synonym: vertex sharp wave. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S3; Beniczky ea 2017, Section 7.)]</nowiki>
* K-complex <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-significance-to-recording, suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Asymmetrical, suggestedTag=Symmetrical, hedId=HED_0042490} [A burst of somewhat variable appearance, consisting most commonly of a high voltage negative slow wave followed by a smaller positive slow wave frequently associated with a sleep spindle. Duration greater than 0.5 s. Amplitude is generally maximal in the frontal vertex. K complexes occur during nonREM sleep, apparently spontaneously, or in response to sudden sensory / auditory stimuli, and are not specific for any individual sensory modality. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S3; Beniczky ea 2017, Section 7.)]</nowiki>
* Saw-tooth-waves <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-significance-to-recording, suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Asymmetrical, suggestedTag=Symmetrical, hedId=HED_0042491} [Vertex negative 2-5 Hz waves occurring in series during REM sleep. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S3; Beniczky ea 2017, Section 7.)]</nowiki>
* POSTS <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-significance-to-recording, suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Asymmetrical, suggestedTag=Symmetrical, hedId=HED_0042492} [Positive occipital sharp transients of sleep. Sharp transient maximal over the occipital regions, positive relative to other areas, apparently occurring spontaneously during sleep. May be single or repetitive. Amplitude varies but is generally below 50 microV. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S3; Beniczky ea 2017, Section 7.)]</nowiki>
* Hypnagogic-hypersynchrony <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Finding-significance-to-recording, suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Asymmetrical, suggestedTag=Symmetrical, hedId=HED_0042493} [Hypnagogic/hypnopompic hypersynchrony in children. Bursts of bilateral, synchronous delta or theta activity of large amplitude, occasionally with superimposed faster components, occurring during falling asleep or during awakening, in children. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S3; Beniczky ea 2017, Section 7.)]</nowiki>
* Non-reactive-sleep <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042494} [EEG activity consisting of normal sleep graphoelements, but which cannot be interrupted by external stimuli/ the patient cannot be wakened. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S3; Beniczky ea 2017, Section 7.)]</nowiki>

'''Uncertain-significant-pattern''' <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042495} [EEG graphoelements or rhythms that resemble abnormal patterns but that are not necessarily associated with a pathology, and the physician does not consider them abnormal in the context of the scored recording (like normal variants and patterns). (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S1; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Sharp-transient-pattern <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042496} [Sharp transient. (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Wicket-spikes <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042497} [Spike-like monophasic negative single waves or trains of waves occurring over the temporal regions during drowsiness that have an arcuate or mu-like appearance. These are mainly seen in older individuals and represent a benign variant that is of little clinical significance. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S6; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Small-sharp-spikes <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042498} [Benign Epileptiform Transients of Sleep (BETS). Small Sharp Spikes (SSS) of very short duration and low amplitude, often followed by a small theta wave, occurring in the temporal regions during drowsiness and light sleep. They occur on one or both sides (often asynchronously). The main negative and positive components are of about equally spiky character. Rarely seen in children, they are seen most often in adults and the elderly. Two thirds of the patients have a history of epileptic seizures. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S6; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Fourteen-six-Hz-positive-burst <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042499} [Burst of arch-shaped waves at 13-17 Hz and/or 5-7-Hz but most commonly at 14 and/or 6 Hz seen generally over the posterior temporal and adjacent areas of one or both sides of the head during sleep. The sharp peaks of its component waves are positive with respect to other regions. Amplitude varies but is generally below 75  micro V. Comments: (1) best demonstrated by referential recording using contralateral earlobe or other remote, reference electrodes. (2) This pattern has no established clinical significance. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S6; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Six-Hz-spike-slow-wave <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042500} [Spike and slow wave complexes at 4-7 Hz, but mostly at 6 Hz occurring generally in brief bursts bilaterally and synchronously, symmetrically or asymmetrically, and either confined to or of larger amplitude over the posterior or anterior regions of the head. The spike has a strong positive component. Amplitude varies but is generally smaller than that of spike-and slow-wave complexes repeating at slower rates. Comment: this pattern should be distinguished from epileptiform discharges. Synonym: wave and spike phantom. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S6; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Rudimentary-spike-wave-complex <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042501} [Synonym: pseudo petit mal discharge. Paroxysmal discharge that consists of generalized or nearly generalized high voltage 3 to 4/sec waves with poorly developed spike in the positive trough between the slow waves, occurring in drowsiness only. It is found only in infancy and early childhood when marked hypnagogic rhythmical theta activity is paramount in the drowsy state. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S6; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Slow-fused-transient <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042502} [A posterior slow-wave preceded by a sharp-contoured potential that blends together with the ensuing slow wave, in children. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S6; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Needle-like-occipital-spikes-blind <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042503} [Spike discharges of a particularly fast and needle-like character develop over the occipital region in most congenitally blind children. Completely disappear during childhood or adolescence. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S6; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Subclinical-rhythmic-EEG-discharge-adults <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042504} [Subclinical Rhythmic EEG Discharge of Adults (SERDA). A rhythmic pattern seen in adults, mainly in the waking state or drowsiness. It consists of a mixture of frequencies, often predominant in the theta range. The onset may be fairly abrupt with widespread sharp rhythmical theta and occasionally with delta activity. As to the spatial distribution, a maximum of this discharge is usually found over the centroparietal region and especially over the vertex. It may resemble a seizure discharge but is not accompanied by any clinical signs or symptoms. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S6; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Rhythmic-temporal-theta-burst-drowsiness <nowiki>{hedId=HED_0042505} [Rhythmic temporal theta burst of drowsiness (RTTD). Characteristic burst of 4-7 Hz waves frequently notched by faster waves, occurring over the temporal regions of the head during drowsiness. Synonym: psychomotor variant pattern. Comment: this is a pattern of drowsiness that is of no clinical significance. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S6; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Ciganek-rhythm <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042506} [Ciganek rhythm (midline central theta) (Source: Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Temporal-slowing-elderly <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042507} [Focal theta and/or delta activity over the temporal regions, especially the left, in persons over the age of 60. Amplitudes are low/similar to the background activity. Comment: focal temporal theta was found in 20 percent of people between the ages of 40-59 years, and 40 percent of people between 60 and 79 years. One third of people older than 60 years had focal temporal delta activity. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S6; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Breach-rhythm <nowiki>{suggestedTag=Categorical-location-value, suggestedTag=Sensors, suggestedTag=Appearance-mode, suggestedTag=Discharge-pattern, hedId=HED_0042508} [Rhythmical activity recorded over cranial bone defects. Usually it is in the 6 to 11/sec range and does not respond to movements. (Source: Beniczky ea 2013, Appendix S6; Beniczky ea 2017, Table 14.)]</nowiki>
* Other-uncertain-significant-pattern <nowiki>{requireChild, hedId=HED_0042509}</nowiki>
**  <nowiki># {takesValue, valueClass=textClass, hedId=HED_0042510} [Free text.]</nowiki>


!# end schema

'''Unit classes'''

'''Unit modifiers'''

'''Value classes'''

'''Schema attributes'''

'''Properties'''
'''Epilogue'''
The Standardized Computer-based Organized Reporting of EEG (SCORE) is a standard terminology for scalp EEG data assessment designed for use in clinical practice that may also be used for research purposes.
The SCORE standard defines terms for describing phenomena observed in scalp EEG data. It is also potentially applicable (with some suitable extensions) to EEG recorded in critical care and neonatal settings.
The SCORE standard received European consensus and has been endorsed by the European Chapter of the International Federation of Clinical Neurophysiology (IFCN) and the International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE) Commission on European Affairs.
A second revised and extended version of SCORE achieved international consensus.

1 Beniczky ea 2013: "Standardized computer based organized reporting of EEG: SCORE." Epilepsia 54(6) pp.1112-1124.
2 Beniczky ea 2017: "Standardized computer based organized reporting of EEG: SCORE second version." Clinical Neurophysiology 128(11) pp.2334-2346.
3 Hirsch ea 2013: "American Clinical Neurophysiology Society’s Standardized Critical Care EEG Terminology: 2012 version." Journal of clinical neurophysiology 30(1) pp.1-27.
4 Fisher ea 2017: "Instruction manual for the ILAE 2017 operational classification of seizure types." Epilepsia 58(4) pp.531-542.
5 Trenité ea 2001: "Visual sensitivity and epilepsy: a proposed terminology and classification for clinical and EEG phenomenology." Epilepsia 42(5) pp.692-701.
6 Blume ea 2001: "Glossary of descriptive terminology for ictal semiology: report of the ILAE task force on classification and terminology." Epilepsia 42(9) pp.1212-1218.

TPA July 2023

!# end hed
