HED library="testlib" version="2.0.0" withStandard="8.2.0" unmerged="true"

'''Prologue'''
This schema tests the ordering effects of various combinations of rooted and extension allowed for rooted schemas. It is compatible with testlib version 3.0.0 but not testlib 2.0.0.

!# start schema

'''Violin-sound''' {rooted=Instrument-sound} [These should be sorted.  Violin should be last]
* Violin-subsound3
* Violin-subsound1
* Violin-subsound2

'''Oboe-sound''' {rooted=Instrument-sound} [These should be sorted.  Oboe should be second]
* Oboe-subsound2
* Oboe-subsound1

'''B-nonextension''' [These should not be sorted.  B should be first]
* SubnodeB1
* SubnodeB2

'''A-nonextension''' [These should not be sorted.  A should be second]
* SubnodeA3
* SubnodeA1
* SubnodeA2

'''Flute-sound''' {rooted=Instrument-sound} [These should be sorted.  Flute should be first]
* Flute-subsound2
* Flute-subsound1

'''C-nonextension''' [These should not be sorted.  C should be last]
* SubnodeC3
* SubnodeC1
* SubnodeC2

'''B-extensionallowed'''{extensionAllowed} [These should be sorted.  This section should be second.]
* SubnodeE3
* SubnodeE1
* SubnodeE2

'''A-extensionallowed'''{extensionAllowed} [These should be sorted.  This section should be first.]
* SubnodeD3
* SubnodeD1
* SubnodeD2

!# end schema

'''Unit classes''' <nowiki>[Unit classes and the units for the nodes.]</nowiki>

'''Unit modifiers''' <nowiki>[Unit multiples and submultiples.]</nowiki>

'''Value classes''' <nowiki>[Specification of the rules for the values provided by users.]</nowiki>

'''Schema attributes''' <nowiki>[Allowed node, unit class or unit modifier attributes.]</nowiki>

'''Properties''' <nowiki>[Properties of the schema attributes themselves. These are used for schema handling and verification.]</nowiki>

'''Epilogue'''
A final section.

!# end hed