HED version="1.0.0" library="slam" withStandard="8.4.0" unmerged="True"

'''Prologue'''
The HED SLAM(Sensor Location and Motion) HED library schema is designed to standardize the annotation of sensor locations and human motion across recording modalities and diverse fields. 

!# start schema

'''Anatomical-landmark''' <nowiki>{rooted=Anatomical-item} [A collection of specific points on the human body used for anatomical and sensor placement reference.]</nowiki>
* Abdomen-landmark <nowiki>[Points on the abdomen used as reference landmarks.]</nowiki>
** Anterior-Superior-Iliac-Spine-ASIS <nowiki>[The forwardmost point of the iliac crest.]</nowiki>
** Posterior-Superior-Iliac-Spine-PSIS <nowiki>[The rearmost point of the iliac crest.]</nowiki>
** Umbilicus <nowiki>[The navel or belly button.]</nowiki>
* Foot-landmark <nowiki>[Points on the foot used as reference landmarks.]</nowiki>
** Calcaneal-Tuberosity-CT <nowiki>[The bony prominence at the heel.]</nowiki>
** First-Metatarsal-Head-FMH <nowiki>[The tip of the big toe.]</nowiki>
** Lateral-Malleolus-LM <nowiki>[The bony prominence on the lateral side of the ankle.]</nowiki>
** Medial-Malleolus-MM <nowiki>[The bony prominence on the medial side of the ankle.]</nowiki>
* Forearm-landmark <nowiki>[Points on the forearm used as reference landmarks.]</nowiki>
** Radial-Styloid-Process-RSP <nowiki>[The bony prominence on the radius bone at the wrist.]</nowiki>
** Ulnar-Styloid-Process-USP <nowiki>[The bony prominence on the ulna bone at the wrist.]</nowiki>
* Hand-landmark <nowiki>[Points on the hand used as reference landmarks.]</nowiki>
** Third-Metacarpophalangeal-Joint-MCP <nowiki>[The knuckle of the middle finger.]</nowiki>
* Head-landmark <nowiki>[Points on the head used as reference landmarks.]</nowiki>
** Inion <nowiki>[The most prominent point of the occipital bone at the back of the head.]</nowiki>
** Left-helix-tragus-junction-LHJ <nowiki>[The point where the helix meets the tragus of the left ear.]</nowiki>
** Mastoid-process <nowiki>[The process of the temporal bone behind the ear.]</nowiki>
** Midpoint-between-mastoid-processes-MMP <nowiki>[The midpoint between the mastoid processes.]</nowiki>
** Nasion <nowiki>[The midpoint between the eyes just above the bridge of the nose.]</nowiki>
** Right-helix-tragus-junction-RHJ <nowiki>[The point where the helix meets the tragus of the right ear.]</nowiki>
** Vertex <nowiki>[The highest point on the head in the midline.]</nowiki>
* Lower-leg-landmark <nowiki>[Points on the lower leg used as reference landmarks.]</nowiki>
** Tibial-Tuberosity <nowiki>[The bony prominence on the tibia at the knee.]</nowiki>
* Thigh-landmark <nowiki>[Points on the thigh used as reference landmarks.]</nowiki>
** Femur-Lateral-Epicondyle-FLE <nowiki>[The lateral epicondyle of the femur.]</nowiki>
** Femur-Medial-Epicondyle-FME <nowiki>[The medial epicondyle of the femur.]</nowiki>
** Greater-Trochanter <nowiki>[The large prominence at the proximal end of the femur.]</nowiki>
* Torso-chest-landmark <nowiki>[Points on the chest used as reference landmarks.]</nowiki>
** Acromion-process <nowiki>[The outermost point of the shoulder blade.]</nowiki>
** Suprasternal-Notch-Jugular-Notch <nowiki>[The notch at the top of the sternum.]</nowiki>
** Vertebra-prominens-C7 <nowiki>[The seventh cervical vertebra at the base of the neck.]</nowiki>
** Xiphoid-process <nowiki>[The small cartilaginous process at the lower end of the sternum.]</nowiki>
* Upper-arm-landmark <nowiki>[Points on the upper arm used as reference landmarks.]</nowiki>
** Lateral-Humerus-Epicondyle-LHE <nowiki>[The lateral epicondyle of the humerus.]</nowiki>
** Medial-Humerus-Epicondyle-MHE <nowiki>[The medial epicondyle of the humerus.]</nowiki>


!# end schema

'''Unit classes'''

'''Unit modifiers'''

'''Value classes'''

'''Schema attributes'''

'''Properties'''

'''Epilogue'''

'''Sources'''
* <nowiki>source=Wikipedia,link=https://en.wikipedia.org,description=General definitions of concepts.</nowiki>

'''Prefixes'''
* <nowiki>prefix=dc:,namespace=http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/#,description=The Dublin Core elements</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=foaf:,namespace=http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/#,description=Friend-of-a-Friend http://xmlns.com/foaf/spec/</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=iao:,namespace=http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/iao.owl,description=Information Artifact Ontology (IAO)</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=ncit:,namespace=http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/ncit.owl,description=NCI Thesaurus OBO Edition</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=obogo:,namespace=http://www.geneontology.org/formats/oboInOwl,description=The OBO Format Namespace</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=owl:,namespace=http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl,description=The OWL namespace [OWL2-OVERVIEW]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=prov:,namespace=http://www.w3.org/ns/prov,description=The PROV namespace [PROV-DM]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=rdf:,namespace=http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns,description=The RDF namespace [RDF-CONCEPTS]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=rdfs:,namespace=http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema,description=The RDF Schema namespace [RDFS]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=skos:,namespace=http://www.w3.org/2004/02/skos/core,description=SKOS (Simple Knowledge Organization System) Vocabulary</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=terms:,namespace=http://purl.org/dc/terms/#,description=The Dublin Core terms</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=xml:,namespace=http://www.w3.org/XML/1998/namespace,description=XLM Namespace [XML]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=xsd:,namespace=http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema,description=XML Schema Namespace [XMLSCHEMA11-2]</nowiki>

'''External annotations'''
* <nowiki>prefix=dc:,id=contributor,iri=http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/contributor,description=An entity responsible for making contributions to the resource.</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=dc:,id=creator,iri=http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/creator,description=An entity primarily responsible for making the resource.</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=dc:,id=date,iri=http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/date,description=A point or period of time associated with an event in the lifecycle of the resource.</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=dc:,id=description,iri=http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description,description=An account of the resource.</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=dc:,id=format,iri=http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/format,description=The file format</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=dc:,id=identifier,iri=http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/identifier,description=An unambiguous reference to the resource within a given context.</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=dc:,id=language,iri=http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/language,description=A language of the resource.</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=dc:,id=publisher,iri=http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/publisher,description=An entity responsible for making the resource available.</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=dc:,id=relation,iri=http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/relation,description=A related resource.</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=dc:,id=source,iri=http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/source,description=A related resource from which the described resource is derived.</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=dc:,id=subject,iri=http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/subject,description=The topic of the resource.</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=dc:,id=title,iri=http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title,description=A name given to the resource.</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=dc:,id=type,iri=http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/type,description=The nature or genre of the resource.</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=foaf:,id=homepage,iri=http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/homepage,description=A homepage for some thing.</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=obogo:,id=has_dbxref,iri=http://www.geneontology.org/formats/oboInOwl#hasDbXref,description=Property indicating that an ontology term has a cross-reference to a database.</nowiki>
* <nowiki>prefix=terms:,id=license,iri=http://purl.org/dc/terms/license,description=A legal document giving official permission to do something with the resource.</nowiki>

!# end hed
